documents/chapter1_introduction.md, before:

# Introduction #

## Project Goals and Objectives ##

<!-- [Describe what are the goals and objectives of the project.  In addition, it covers the context in which the project was placed.] -->

The goal of this project was to design and implement a high-speed USB 3.0 logic analyzer. All of the design files and source code is released under the MIT open source license. This project was designed to increase the ability of the hobbyist and education market for electronic design testing. In order to impact this sector the price must be kept low while the features of the logic analyzer still compete with incumbent market leaders.

One of the main features of this project is having high-speed data analysis. The projects goal is to achieve accurate analysis of signals up to 100MHz. In order to achieve this goal we accomplished subgoals of high speed data storage, processing, and transmitting. USB 3.0 was also used, allowing faster transfer of data, making it possible to stream at high speeds due to its capability of reaching speeds up to 4.8 megabits per second far exceeding the expected recording speed of the logic analyzer.

The second main feature of the this project is to be fully open sourced. This means barring the market modules used, every tool used and document created is open for view and fair use by the community. This allows the logic analyzer to continue to be maintained and improved in perpetuity. It also allows anyone who wants to reproduce the project to look throught the version history for an understand of why certain design decisions were made.

## Problem and Motivation ##

<!-- [Describe the problem, motivation, and needs of your project. You need to address why this project is important and what is the problem you have addressed.] -->

Logic analyzers are an important tool used in hardware development. Currently there is one market leader in the low cost USB logic analyzer sector and they recently doubled the prices of all their products. There are several open source logic analyzer projects available, but those also have their own set of problems. The most recent open source logic analyzer design is poorly documented and doesn’t provide the necessary files to manufacture the product. Other popular projects are much older and use hardware that has become obsolete. While the logic analyzer portion is still functions, the hardware design could be improved with more modern components and interfaces.

## Project Application and Impact ##

<!-- [Describe the application of your project results, and its impacts to academic, industry, and society.] -->

## Academic ###
Providing an open source logic analyzer project could allow for other academic projects the tools necessary to test new designs without relying on expensive industry tools. Academic projects could also refactor our open source logic analyzer to work with a specific application they are developing.

### Industry ###
By providing a low cost logic analyzer that is completely free, hardware companies could integrate the logic analyzer into their own products which could aid in faster development times.

### Society ##
Low cost, open source hardware tools could decrease costs of products due to less expensive development costs. Some of these products could be life saving medical devices, safety critical devices, or other devices that require accurate testing. Reducing the cost of testing can reduce the cost of these important systems overall, expanding the impact across communities.

## Project Results and Deliverables ##

<!-- [Describe your actual project results (such as a system, and a component) and project deliverables (such as report, prototype, code, etc.).] -->

### Report### 
A key deliverable is this report. The report includes a thorough and detailed documentation of this project. The report is written in a way to allow a person with no knowledge on the project, but complete industry knowledge to complete the project only using the information contained in the document. The report also allows someone with no knowledge on the current state of the industry for logic analyzers to get a complete understanding through reading the report.

### Source Code ### 
All of the source code we wrote, including the USB device driver, sigrok device handler, verilog system implementation and microcontroller software are provided in a Github repository. This source code is both compilable and synthesizable and can be used to program and use our product. We have also provided precompiled binaries for multiple platforms that can be used instead of compiling from source.

<!-- ### Design Files ###
We have provided the design files for our printed circuit board as well as the files necessary to manufacture the printed circuit board. We will also provide a complete bill of materials. Our intentions is that anyone can download the files, get the printed circuit board produce, and assemble the device if they wanted to. -->

### Documentation ### 
In addition to the source code <!--and design files-->, we have provided extensive documentation that explains all of the components of the system. We believe this is an important component of a successful product and will allow for other people to contribute to the project in the future.

### Prototype ### 
We have a prototype of our initial design for review. <!-- This will include a printed circuit board and a case to house the circuit board. This will be a fully working prototype that can demonstrate all of the features of our project--> This prototype will be using various development boards to demonstrate the functionality of our design. 

## Project Report Structure ##

<!-- [Introduce the following sections of the document] -->



\newpage

Commit message:

#5 Added quick project report structure section content

documents/chapter1_introduction.md, after:

# Introduction #

## Project Goals and Objectives ##

<!-- [Describe what are the goals and objectives of the project.  In addition, it covers the context in which the project was placed.] -->

The goal of this project was to design and implement a high-speed USB 3.0 logic analyzer. All of the design files and source code is released under the MIT open source license. This project was designed to increase the ability of the hobbyist and education market for electronic design testing. In order to impact this sector the price must be kept low while the features of the logic analyzer still compete with incumbent market leaders.

One of the main features of this project is having high-speed data analysis. The projects goal is to achieve accurate analysis of signals up to 100MHz. In order to achieve this goal we accomplished subgoals of high speed data storage, processing, and transmitting. USB 3.0 was also used, allowing faster transfer of data, making it possible to stream at high speeds due to its capability of reaching speeds up to 4.8 megabits per second far exceeding the expected recording speed of the logic analyzer.

The second main feature of the this project is to be fully open sourced. This means barring the market modules used, every tool used and document created is open for view and fair use by the community. This allows the logic analyzer to continue to be maintained and improved in perpetuity. It also allows anyone who wants to reproduce the project to look throught the version history for an understand of why certain design decisions were made.

## Problem and Motivation ##

<!-- [Describe the problem, motivation, and needs of your project. You need to address why this project is important and what is the problem you have addressed.] -->

Logic analyzers are an important tool used in hardware development. Currently there is one market leader in the low cost USB logic analyzer sector and they recently doubled the prices of all their products. There are several open source logic analyzer projects available, but those also have their own set of problems. The most recent open source logic analyzer design is poorly documented and doesn’t provide the necessary files to manufacture the product. Other popular projects are much older and use hardware that has become obsolete. While the logic analyzer portion is still functions, the hardware design could be improved with more modern components and interfaces.

## Project Application and Impact ##

<!-- [Describe the application of your project results, and its impacts to academic, industry, and society.] -->

## Academic ###
Providing an open source logic analyzer project could allow for other academic projects the tools necessary to test new designs without relying on expensive industry tools. Academic projects could also refactor our open source logic analyzer to work with a specific application they are developing.

### Industry ###
By providing a low cost logic analyzer that is completely free, hardware companies could integrate the logic analyzer into their own products which could aid in faster development times.

### Society ##
Low cost, open source hardware tools could decrease costs of products due to less expensive development costs. Some of these products could be life saving medical devices, safety critical devices, or other devices that require accurate testing. Reducing the cost of testing can reduce the cost of these important systems overall, expanding the impact across communities.

## Project Results and Deliverables ##

<!-- [Describe your actual project results (such as a system, and a component) and project deliverables (such as report, prototype, code, etc.).] -->

### Report### 
A key deliverable is this report. The report includes a thorough and detailed documentation of this project. The report is written in a way to allow a person with no knowledge on the project, but complete industry knowledge to complete the project only using the information contained in the document. The report also allows someone with no knowledge on the current state of the industry for logic analyzers to get a complete understanding through reading the report.

### Source Code ### 
All of the source code we wrote, including the USB device driver, sigrok device handler, verilog system implementation and microcontroller software are provided in a Github repository. This source code is both compilable and synthesizable and can be used to program and use our product. We have also provided precompiled binaries for multiple platforms that can be used instead of compiling from source.

<!-- ### Design Files ###
We have provided the design files for our printed circuit board as well as the files necessary to manufacture the printed circuit board. We will also provide a complete bill of materials. Our intentions is that anyone can download the files, get the printed circuit board produce, and assemble the device if they wanted to. -->

### Documentation ### 
In addition to the source code <!--and design files-->, we have provided extensive documentation that explains all of the components of the system. We believe this is an important component of a successful product and will allow for other people to contribute to the project in the future.

### Prototype ### 
We have a prototype of our initial design for review. <!-- This will include a printed circuit board and a case to house the circuit board. This will be a fully working prototype that can demonstrate all of the features of our project--> This prototype will be using various development boards to demonstrate the functionality of our design. 

## Project Report Structure ##

<!-- [Introduce the following sections of the document] -->

The following seven chapters go into detail on all of our design choices. Chapter 2 discusses the theory of digital signal sampling, the history of digital signal analyzers, and the current state of the market. Chapter 3 covers the requirments that we believe represent a successful project. Chapter 4 covers the system design and our design choices. Chapter 5 talks about our implementation and the problems we overcame while developing this project. Chapter 6 discusses the tools we used to complete this project. Chapter 7 talks about our testing and verification. Chapter 8 is our conclusion to this project and what we have learned.

\newpage
