README.md, before:

# Logic Analyzer Report #
This repository holds all of the source files used to produce the project report. This report
is built using `pandoc` and a custom LaTeX template.

# Requirements #

* [pandoc](http://pandoc.org/)
* [Python3](https://www.python.org/)
* LaTeX engine that supports `tex2pdf`
    * Windows: [MiKTeX](http://miktex.org/)
    * macOS: [BasicTeX](http://www.tug.org/mactex/morepackages.html)
    * Linux: [TeX Live](http://www.tug.org/texlive/)
* [Merriweather](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Merriweather) font

## Optional ##
If you want to update the diagrams automatically on report build:

* [nodejs](https://nodejs.org/en/)
* [drawio-batch](https://github.com/languitar/drawio-batch)

# Generate Report #
If all of the requirements have been met, a report can be generated by invoking the generate script using `python3 generate.py`. This will output a pdf file named `report.pdf`.

# Build with Jenkins #
This project is also setup to build using a Pipelined Jenkins build job. The requirements are still the same. If you would like to set up Jenkins in a Docker container, use the following `dockerfile`:

```dockerfile
FROM jenkins/jenkins:lts
USER root
RUN apt-get update
RUN apt-get install -y apt-utils dirmngr gnupg gnupg-agent software-properties-common python3 autoconf gperf bison flex gcc g++ make swig python-dev cmake subversion iverilog python3-pip python-pip texlive-base texlive-fonts-extra texlive-fonts-recommended texlive-generic-recommended texlive-pictures texlive-xetex texlive-extra-utils xzdec
RUN wget https://github.com/jgm/pandoc/releases/download/2.4/pandoc-2.4-1-amd64.deb && dpkg -i pandoc-*-amd64.deb
RUN wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/hotice/webupd8/master/install-google-fonts && chmod +x install-google-fonts && ./install-google-fonts
USER jenkins
```

Commit message:

Fixed mistakes in documentation sections
Also removed the dockerfile from the README

README.md, after:

# Logic Analyzer Report #
This repository holds all of the source files used to produce the project report. This report
is built using `pandoc` and a custom LaTeX template.

# Requirements #

* [pandoc](http://pandoc.org/)
* [Python3](https://www.python.org/)
* LaTeX engine that supports `tex2pdf`
    * Windows: [MiKTeX](http://miktex.org/)
    * macOS: [BasicTeX](http://www.tug.org/mactex/morepackages.html)
    * Linux: [TeX Live](http://www.tug.org/texlive/)
* [Merriweather](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Merriweather) font

## Linux ##
If you are building on a Debian based Linux distribution, you can run the `requirements.sh` shell script to install the necessary dependencies.

## Optional ##
If you want to update the diagrams automatically on report build:

* [nodejs](https://nodejs.org/en/)
* [drawio-batch](https://github.com/languitar/drawio-batch)

# Generate Report #
If all of the requirements have been met, a report can be generated by invoking the generate script using `python3 generate.py`. This will output a pdf file named `report.pdf`.
